parent one lhasa Montgomery back again
with another Chinese saying for your
growing repertoire thanks for giving the
Chinese sayings podcast another shot
that i mentioned we're part of tea cup
media this saying today is even older
than last episodes we're traveling back
even further in time to more than twenty
three centuries ago to the year 316 BCE
in the West while our story is taking
place classical Greek civilization is at
its peak and Alexander the Great had
just perished only seven years prior at
the palace of Nebuchadnezzar and Babylon
and in China still no unified country
exists yet that is called China or even
junghwa there's only a collection of
warring States trying to annihilate each
other so that one could emerge
victorious so 316 BCE still hadn't been
done 4th century BCE before the Common
Era all dates I'm mentioning in this
episode will be BCE are Chong you for
today goes back to the time of King
Waylan of Qin he was the ancestor of the
Qin Emperor who unified China and built
that amazing mausoleum and Xian with all
its terracotta warriors and horses our
story behind this Chung you come
straight from the China history podcast
episode 158 the rise and fall of the
Chien part 2 CHP listeners might
remember the sure Neal doll the stone
cattle road that cuts through the
qinling mountains separating shiny she
and Sichuan province yeah today's story
looks at the not too bright ruler down
in the ancient state of shoe who thanks
to his short sightedness goes down in
Chinese history as the man who gave us a
staple among popular Chung you Tod Shaw
sure doc allow me to explain how that
one works four characters ton means to
covet or to be greedy for something
she'll means small so tons y'all means
you greedy for small things
sure means to lose dot means great or
big sure da Luz big ton Shaw sure die
because you're greedy for the small
thing he end up losing the big thing if
you're familiar with the chin state or
you've already listened to the CHP
series on the rise and fall of the chain
you'll recall they had a lot of big
ideas about conquering the various
kingdoms to their east but before they
went after those big strong guys they
had their eyes on lesser states that
they believe should be taken down first
in order to enhance their army bring
additional wealth into the chiyan state
and to fortify allow them to bulk up
enough to go take on these other more
powerful states so King way 1 and his
advisors agreed they had to start with
these two kingdoms to the south ba and
shoe down where Sichuan is today now
this is a just a legend but one of King
Whelan's advisors had told him that they
should create some sort of ruse that
took advantage of the shoe rulers
well-known avaricious ways he had a soft
spot for gold silver and other kinds of
tangible treasure they had sent out an
exploratory mission to see how they can
get a big enough army down there to take
this kingdom down what they found out
was that the qinling mountains presented
too big an obstacle for marching an army
through to the south and it was passable
by individuals on foot but for the kind
of military plans they had in mind it
wasn't feasible so someone came up with
the idea to create these carved stone
cattle five of them at all and they
filled the extremities of the animal
with pieces of gold they knew the ruler
in that part of China that we know today
as sich one province wouldn't be able to
resist such a prize and they sent
someone down to Shu and a goodwill
mission by all appearances with a list
of all these valuable gifts that Sheen
wanted to present the king or actually
his title was the mark
some shoe now this ruler sent envoys to
Chien to go check these gifts out and
they were amazed with these stone cattle
or sure neo that were actually filled
with gold well this Marcus a shoe had an
advisor you know who had a little more
subtle than his boss and this adviser
warned his superior not to be fooled now
he probably hadn't heard about what
befell the Trojans about a century
before but this was the general idea of
what he was telling the shoe ruler he
warned that these men of Chien were up
to something their reputation as a
fighting machine was already well known
around town and he told the king don't
accept these gifts and don't let them
come down to Shu you'll never be able to
get rid of them well this Marcus of shoe
fulminated over the benefits and risks
and decided to ignore his wise Minister
and went ahead and gave instructions to
invite these chin ambassadors down to
Shu to present their gifts that she an
ambassador told the shoe rulers people
that a road is going to need to be built
in order to facilitate convenient
transport of these stone cattle through
the qinling mountains that separated
Cian from shoe the shoe ruler there must
have considered that a small price to
pay and at once arranged for a
sufficient number of workers to go out
and start quarrying enough limestone out
of the hills to build a road that could
facilitate easy transport to these big
heavy gifts through the mountains in
this road became known as the shield of
the stone cattle road there may be bits
and pieces of this road that still
exists today and you can probably guess
what happened after the road was
finished and after the gifts had been
presented that she an army later on just
marched down all the way to present-day
Chengdu and put an end to the shoe state
in 316 BCE as well as the ba state next
door and that spelled the end of ba shoe
and they had whole incredible
civilization again in what is today
sichuan province you remember from the
history of t-series part 1 these were
the people who
were the first in China to cultivate tea
so almost a hundred years after that she
and army put it into the Bosch shoe
kingdoms around two thirty nine BCE
Lupul way another famous name from those
times also prominently mentioned in that
China history podcast episode on the
rise and fall of the chin he wrote this
history of the times and it was called
the new shirt win show and Lupul way was
the one who remarked that this shoe
ruler because he coveted something as
small and insignificant as a little gold
later on ended up losing his whole
kingdom because he ton Shah he coveted
the small he ended up cheered up losing
the big so this is where Tang Shao sure
da came from and this Chung you has been
used for a couple thousand years since
whenever a similar situation arises
where someone loses out big because they
were too greedy for the small game that
came their way first tons sha sure doc
don't lose sight of the big picture for
the sake of a quick score this is the
Chinese version of our Pennywise and
pound-foolish someone who watches the
pennies they spend but not the pounds so
that's the Chum you for this time now
while I have you here let me shamelessly
plug a couple other programs from teacup
media this future fount of chinese
cultural podcast programs for more than
100 hours of history from both ancient
and modern times in china go check out
the china history podcast six years
running we're related and if you're one
of those sorts like your humble narrator
who enjoys antiquarian books by writers
who travel to china during the Ching
dynasty let me turn you on to the China
vintage our travel writing that gives us
eyewitness accounts of China and you
know you're always guaranteed plenty of
yucks when east meets west you could
find the China vintage our the China
history podcast and this very Chinese
sayings podcast all at teacup media
that's teacup media and of course in
itunes and whoever else will stoop to a
my humble content to be heard on their
platform until the next time on behalf
of the whole gang a teacup media
management the interns hangers-on and
Apple scruffs this is laszlo Montgomery
signing off from an undisclosed location
west of the San Andreas Fault here in
Southern California think about joining
me next time for another interesting and
useful episode of the Chinese sayings
podcast